Add ClusterInstance API docs for SiteConfig Operator (#6828)
open-cluster-management/rhacm-docs: apis/clusterinstance.json.adoc

[#clusterInstance-api]
= ClusterInstance API

[[_rhacm-docs_apis_clusterinstance_jsonoverview]]
== Overview
This documentation is for the ClusterInstance resource for {acm}. The ClusterInstance resource has four possible requests: create, query, delete and update.

=== Version information
[%hardbreaks]
__Version__ : 2.12.0

=== URI scheme
[%hardbreaks]
__BasePath__ : /kubernetes/apis
__Schemes__ : HTTPS

=== Tags

* siteconfig.open-cluster-management.io : Create and manage clusters

[[_rhacm-docs_apis_clusterinstance_jsonpaths]]
== Paths

[[_rhacm-docs_apis_clusterinstance_jsonqueryclusters]]
=== Query all clusters
....
GET /siteconfig.open-cluster-management.io/v1alpha1/<clusterinstance_namespace>/<clusterinstance_name>
....

==== Description
Query your clusters for more details.

==== Parameters

[options="header", cols=".^2a,.^3a,.^9a,.^4a"]
|===
|Type|Name|Description|Schema

> |*Header*|*COOKIE* +

Reviewer: Should we not add the `clusterinstance_namespace` and `clusterinstance_name` parameters mentioned above?

__required__|Authorization: Bearer {ACCESS_TOKEN} ; ACCESS_TOKEN is the user access token.|string
|===

==== Responses

[options="header", cols=".^2a,.^14a,.^4a"]
|===
|HTTP Code|Description|Schema
|*200*|Success|No Content
|*403*|Access forbidden|No Content
|*404*|Resource not found|No Content
|*500*|Internal service error|No Content
|*503*|Service unavailable|No Content
|===

==== Consumes

> * `clusterinstance/yaml`

Reviewer: Should `clusterinstance/yaml` this be `clusterinstance/json`?

Author: I'm not sure... Checking the other APIs, it looks like most use yaml and still have a request body in json. For example:

* https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_advanced_cluster_management_for_kubernetes/2.11/html/apis/apis#rhacm-docs_apis_mch_jsoncreatemch
* https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_advanced_cluster_management_for_kubernetes/2.11/html/apis/apis#rhacm-docs_apis_placement_jsoncreateplacement
* https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_advanced_cluster_management_for_kubernetes/2.11/html/apis/apis#rhacm-docs_apis_discoveryconfig_jsoncreatediscoveryconfig
* https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_advanced_cluster_management_for_kubernetes/2.11/html/apis/apis#rhacm-docs_apis_discoveredcluster_jsoncreatediscoveredcluster

I found that only this API says that it consumes json:
* https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_advanced_cluster_management_for_kubernetes/2.11/html/apis/apis#rhacm-docs_apis_policy_jsoncreatepolicy

Reviewer: Please confirm with other ACM docs folks as well then. I'm okay with `yaml`. I am curious, do we test the API endpoints?

Author: @swopebe Could you please take a look?

==== Tags

* siteconfig.open-cluster-management.io

[[_rhacm-docs_apis_clusterinstance_jsoncreatecluster]]
=== Create installation manifests
....
POST /siteconfig.open-cluster-management.io/v1alpha1/<clusterinstance_namespace>/<clusterinstance_name>
....

==== Description

> Create installation manifests.

Reviewer: The description and section heading are the same. Perhaps we can elaborate a bit more here?

==== Parameters

[options="header", cols=".^2a,.^3a,.^9a,.^4a"]
|===
|Type|Name|Description|Schema
|*Header*|*COOKIE* +
__required__|Authorization: Bearer {ACCESS_TOKEN} ; ACCESS_TOKEN is the user access token.|string
|*Body*|*body* +
__required__|Parameters describing the installation manifests to be created.|<<_rhacm-docs_apis_clusterinstance_jsonclusterinstance,ClusterInstance>>
|===

==== Responses

[options="header", cols=".^2a,.^14a,.^4a"]
|===
|HTTP Code|Description|Schema
|*200*|Success|No Content
|*403*|Access forbidden|No Content
|*404*|Resource not found|No Content
|*500*|Internal service error|No Content
|*503*|Service unavailable|No Content
|===

==== Consumes

> * `clusterinstance/yaml`

Reviewer: Same comment as before - should this be `json`?

Reviewer 2: please leave as json for the repo, this content was converted from markdown and this is how the ACM team builds the APIs; there has been no time to rewrite them.

        "proxy": {
            "noProxys": "foobar"
        },
        "caBundleRef": {
            "name": "my-bundle-ref"
        },
        "extraManifestsRefs": [
            {
                "name": "foobar1"
            },
            {
                "name": "foobar2"
            }
        ],
        "networkType": "OVNKubernetes",
        "installConfigOverrides": "{\"capabilities\":{\"baselineCapabilitySet\": \"None\", \"additionalEnabledCapabilities\": [ \"marketplace\", \"NodeTuning\" ] }}",
        "extraLabels": {
            "ManagedCluster": {
                "group-du-sno": "test",
                "common": "true",
                "sites": "site-sno-du-1"
            }
        },
        "clusterNetwork": [
            {
                "cidr": "203.0.113.0/24",
                "hostPrefix": 23
            }
        ],
        "machineNetwork": [
            {
                "cidr": "203.0.113.0/24"
            }
        ],
        "serviceNetwork": [
            {
                "cidr": "203.0.113.0/24"
            }
        ],
        "additionalNTPSources": [
            "NTP.server1",
            "198.51.100.100"
        ],

>         "ignitionConfigOverride": "igen",

Reviewer: I think we should provide a more intuitive example here for `ignitionConfigOverride`. See the nodes example below...

Author: Can I use the same value that's in the nodes.ignitonConfigOverride?
"ignitionConfigOverride": "{\"ignition\": {\"version\": \"3.1.0\"}, \"storage\": {\"files\": [{\"path\": \"/etc/containers/registries.conf\", \"overwrite\": true, \"contents\": {\"source\": \"data:text/plain;base64,foobar==\"}}]}}",

Reviewer: Sure!

        "diskEncryption": {
            "type": "nbde",
            "tang": [
                {
                    "url": "http://192.0.2.5:7500",
                    "thumbprint": "1234567890"
                }
            ]
        },
        "clusterType": "SNO",
        "templateRefs": [
            {
                "name": "aci-cluster-crs-v1",
                "namespace": "siteconfig-operator"
            }
        ],
        "nodes": [
            {
                "hostName": "node1",
                "role": "master",
                "templateRefs": [
                    {
                        "name": "aci-node-crs-v1",
                        "namespace": "siteconfig-operator"
                    }
                ],
                "ironicInspect": "",
                "bmcAddress": "idrac-virtualmedia+https://203.0.113.100/redfish/v1/Systems/System.Embedded.1",
                "bmcCredentialsName": {
                    "name": "<bmcCredentials_secre_name>"
                },
                "bootMACAddress": "00:00:5E:00:53:00",
                "bootMode": "UEFI",
                "rootDeviceHints": {
                    "hctl": "1:2:0:0"
                },

>                 "cpuset": "2-19,22-39",

Reviewer: This should be removed!

                                    "198.51.100.1"
                                ]
                            }
                        },
                        "routes": {
                            "config": [
                                {
                                    "destination": "0.0.0.0/0",
                                    "next-hop-address": "203.0.113.255",
                                    "next-hop-interface": "eno1",
                                    "table-id": 254
                                }
                            ]
                        }
                    }
                }
            }
        ]
    }
}
----

[[_rhacm-docs_apis_clusterinstance_jsonquerycluster]]
=== Query a single cluster
....
GET /siteconfig.open-cluster-management.io/v1alpha1/<clusterinstance_namespace>/<clusterinstance_name>
....

==== Description
Query a single cluster for more details.

==== Parameters

[options="header", cols=".^2a,.^3a,.^9a,.^4a"]
|===
|Type|Name|Description|Schema
|*Header*|*COOKIE* +
__required__|Authorization: Bearer {ACCESS_TOKEN} ; ACCESS_TOKEN is the user access token.|string
|*Path*|*cluster_name* +

> __required__|Name of the cluster that you want to query.|string

Reviewer: This parameter is not for `ClusterInstance`. We should probably add `clusterinstance_namespace` and `clusterinstance_name` parameters...

|===

==== Responses

[options="header", cols=".^2a,.^14a,.^4a"]
|===
|HTTP Code|Description|Schema
|*200*|Success|No Content
|*403*|Access forbidden|No Content
|*404*|Resource not found|No Content
|*500*|Internal service error|No Content
|*503*|Service unavailable|No Content
|===

==== Tags

* siteconfig.open-cluster-management.io

[[_rhacm-docs_apis_clusterinstance_jsondefinitions]]
== Definitions

[[_rhacm-docs_apis_clusterinstance_jsonclusterinstance]]
=== ClusterInstance

[options="header", cols=".^2a,.^3a,.^4a"]
|===
|Name|Description|Schema
|*apiVersion* +
__required__|The versioned schema of the `ClusterInstance`.|string
|*kind* +
__required__|String value that represents the REST resource.|string
|*metadata* +
__required__|The metadata of the `ClusterInstance`.|object
|*spec* +
__required__|The specification of the `ClusterInstance`. |<<_rhacm-docs_apis_clusterinstance_jsoncluster_spec,spec>>
|*status* +

> __required__|The specification of the `ClusterInstance`. |<<_rhacm-docs_apis_clusterinstance_jsoncluster_status,status>> object

Reviewer: ```suggestion
__required__|The status of the `ClusterInstance`. |<<_rhacm-docs_apis_clusterinstance_jsoncluster_status,status>> object
```

|*holdInstallation* +
__optional__|Set to `true` to prevent installation when using the Assisted Installer.
You can complete the inspection and validation steps, but after the `RequirementsMet` condition becomes `true`, the installation does not begin until the `holdInstallation` field is set to `false`.|bool
|*ignitionConfigOverride* +
__optional__|Specify the user overrides for the initial Ignition configuration.|string
|*installConfigOverrides* +
__optional__|Define install configuration parameters.|string
|*machineNetwork* +
__optional__|Specify the list of the IP address pools for machines.|array
|*networkType* +
__optional__|Specify the Container Network Interface (CNI) plugin to install. The default value is `OpenShiftSDN` for IPv4, and `OVNKubernetes` for IPv6 or {sno} clusters.|string
|*platformType* +
__optional__|Define the name of the specific platform on which you want to install.
The following values are supported:

* `BareMetal`
* `VSphere`
* `Nutanix`
* `External`
* `""`
* `None`|string
|*proxy* +
__optional__|Define the proxy settings used for the install configuration of the cluster.|object
|*pruneManifests* +

> __optional__|Specify a list of cluster-level manifests to remove.|array

Reviewer: Perhaps we should mention here that `apiVersion` and `Kind` need to specified for each manifest that needs to be pruned?

The following values are supported:

* `UEFI`
* `UEFISecureBoot`
* `legacy`|string
|*extraAnnotations* +
__optional__|Specify additional node-level annotations to be applied to the rendered templates.|object
|*extraLabels* +
__optional__|Specify additional node-level labels that applies to the rendered templates.|object
|*hostName* +
__required__|Define the host name.|string
|*installerArgs* +
__optional__|Specify the user overrides for the host's :op-system-first: installer arguments.|string
|*ignitionConfigOverride* +
__optional__|Specify the user overrides for the initial Ignition configuration.
Use this field to assign partitions for persistent storage.
Adjust disk ID and size to the specific hardware.|string
|*ironicInspect* +
__optional__|Specify if automatic introspection runs during registration of the bare metal host.
|string
|*nodeLabels* +
__optional__|Specify custom roles for your nodes in your managed clusters.
These are additional roles are not used by any {product-title} components, only by the user.
When you add a custom role, it can be associated with a custom machine config pool that references a specific configuration for that role.

> Adding custom labels or roles during installation makes the deployment process more effective and prevents the need for additional reboots after the installation is complete.

Reviewer: I think this needs to be reworded to avoid confusing the user with other fields such as `extraLabels`, `extraAnnotations` and `role`.

Author: Can we chat about this to clarify the differences? Reading all description now, it gets confusing. FYI, the `nodeLabels` description was used from the siteconfigv1 install reference: https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.16/edge_computing/ztp-deploying-far-edge-sites.html#ztp-sno-siteconfig-config-reference_ztp-deploying-far-edge-sites

Reviewer: I saw that you obtained the description from the original siteconfig-v1 docs... hence I was suggesting rephrasing the description here to avoid nomenclature that would confuse the reader / user. How about replacing "custom labels or roles" with "custom node label"?

Author: WDYT?
> Specify custom node labels for your nodes in your managed clusters. These are additional labels that are not used by any {product-title} components, only by the user. When you add a custom node label, it can be associated with a custom machine config pool that references a specific configuration for that label. Adding custom node labels during installation makes the deployment process more effective and prevents the need for additional reboots after the installation is complete.

Reviewer: sgtm :)

*Note:* When used in the `BareMetalHost` template, the custom labels are appended to the `BareMetalHost` annotations with the `bmac.agent-install.openshift.io` prefix.|object
|*nodeNetwork* +
__optional__|Configure the network settings for nodes that have static networks.|object
|*pruneManifests* +

> __optional__|Specify a list of node-level manifests to remove.|array

Reviewer: Perhaps we should mention here that apiVersion and Kind need to specified for each manifest that needs to be pruned?

|*suppressedManifests* +
__optional__|Specify a list of node-level manifests to exclude from the template rendering process.|array
|*templateRefs* +
__required__|Specify the list of the references to node-level templates.
A node-level template consists of a `ConfigMap` object, in which the keys of the data field represent the kind of the installation manifests.
Node-level templates are instantiated once for each node in the `ClusterInstance` CR.|array
|===

[[_rhacm-docs_apis_clusterinstance_jsoncluster_status]]
*status*

[options="header", cols=".^2a,.^3a,.^4a"]
|===
|Name|Description|Schema
|*conditions* +
__optional__|Lists the conditions that pertain to actions performed on the `ClusterInstance` resource.|<<_rhacm-docs_apis_clusterinstance_jsoncluster_conditions,conditions>> array
|*deploymentConditions* +
__optional__|Lists the hive status conditions that are associated with the `ClusterDeployment` resource.|<<_rhacm-docs_apis_clusterinstance_jsoncluster_deploymentconditions,deploymentConditions>> array
|*manifestsRendered* +
__optional__|Lists the manifests that have been rendered and their statuses.|array
|*observedGeneration* +

> __optional__|Tracks the observed generation of manifests to avoid unnecessary reconciliation.|integer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
__optional__|Tracks the observed generation of the `ClusterInstance`.|integer
```
